README.md, before:

![VIM](https://dnp4pehkvoo6n.cloudfront.net/43c5af597bd5c1a64eb1829f011c208f/as/Ultimate%20Vimrc.svg)

# The Ultimate vimrc

Over the last 10 years, I have used and tweaked Vim. This configuration is the ultimate vimrc (or at least my version of it).

There are two versions:

* **The Basic**: If you want something small just copy [basic.vim](https://github.com/amix/vimrc/blob/master/vimrcs/basic.vim) into your ~/.vimrc and you will have a good basic setup
* **The Awesome**: Includes a ton of useful plugins, color schemes, and configurations

I would, of course, recommend using the awesome version.


## How to install the Awesome version?

The awesome version includes a lot of great plugins, configurations and color schemes that make Vim a lot better. To install it simply do following from your terminal:

    git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/amix/vimrc.git ~/.vim_runtime
    sh ~/.vim_runtime/install_awesome_vimrc.sh


## Fonts

I recommend using [IBM Plex Mono font](https://github.com/IBM/plex) (it's an open-source and awesome font that can make your code beautiful). The Awesome vimrc is already setup to try to use it.

Some other fonts that Awesome will try to use:

* [Hack](http://sourcefoundry.org/hack/)
* [Source Code Pro](https://adobe-fonts.github.io/source-code-pro/)


## How to install the Basic version?

The basic version is just one file and no plugins. Just copy [basic.vim](https://github.com/amix/vimrc/blob/master/vimrcs/basic.vim) and paste it into your vimrc.

The basic version is useful to install on remote servers where you don't need many plugins, and you don't do many edits.

	git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/amix/vimrc.git ~/.vim_runtime
	sh ~/.vim_runtime/install_basic_vimrc.sh


## How to install on Windows?

Use [msysgit](http://msysgit.github.com/) to checkout the repository and run the installation instructions above. No special instructions needed ;-)


## How to install on Linux

If you have vim aliased as `vi` instead of `vim`, make sure to either alias it: `alias vi=vim`. Otherwise, `apt-get install vim`


## How to update to latest version?

Just do a git rebase!

    cd ~/.vim_runtime
    git pull --rebase


## Some screenshots

Colors when editing a Python file:

![Screenshot 1](https://dnp4pehkvoo6n.cloudfront.net/07583008e4da885801657e8781777844/as/Python%20editing.png)

Opening recently opened files with the [mru.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/mru.vim) plugin:

![Screenshot 2](https://dnp4pehkvoo6n.cloudfront.net/1d49a88f9bd5d013c025bb1e1272a7d8/as/MRU%20plugin.png)

[NERD Tree](https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree) plugin in a terminal window:
![Screenshot 3](https://dnp4pehkvoo6n.cloudfront.net/ae719203166585d64728f28398f4b1b7/as/Terminal%20usage.png)

Distraction free mode using [goyo.vim](https://github.com/junegunn/goyo.vim) and [vim-zenroom2](https://github.com/amix/vim-zenroom2):
![Screenshot 4](https://dnp4pehkvoo6n.cloudfront.net/f0dcc4c9739148c56cbf8285a910ac41/as/Zen%20mode.png)


## Included Plugins

I recommend reading the docs of these plugins to understand them better. Each plugin provides a much better Vim experience!

* [ack.vim](https://github.com/mileszs/ack.vim): Vim plugin for `the_silver_searcher` (ag) or ack -- a wicked fast grep
* [bufexplorer.zip](https://github.com/vim-scripts/bufexplorer.zip): Quickly and easily switch between buffers. This plugin can be opened with `<leader+o>`
* [ctrlp.vim](https://github.com/ctrlpvim/ctrlp.vim): Fuzzy file, buffer, mru and tag finder. It's mapped to `<Ctrl+F>`
* [goyo.vim](https://github.com/junegunn/goyo.vim) and [vim-zenroom2](https://github.com/amix/vim-zenroom2): 
* [lightline.vim](https://github.com/itchyny/lightline.vim): A light and configurable statusline/tabline for Vim
* [NERD Tree](https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree): A tree explorer plugin for vim
* [mru.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/mru.vim): Plugin to manage Most Recently Used (MRU) files. This plugin can be opened with `<leader+f>`
* [open_file_under_cursor.vim](https://github.com/amix/open_file_under_cursor.vim): Open file under cursor when pressing `gf`
* [pathogen.vim](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen): Manage your vim runtimepath 
* [snipmate.vim](https://github.com/garbas/vim-snipmate): snipmate.vim aims to be a concise vim script that implements some of TextMate's snippets features in Vim
* [syntastic](https://github.com/scrooloose/syntastic): Syntax checking hacks for vim
* [vim-commentary](https://github.com/tpope/vim-commentary): Comment stuff out.  Use `gcc` to comment out a line (takes a count), `gc` to comment out the target of a motion. `gcu` uncomments a set of adjacent commented lines.
* [vim-expand-region](https://github.com/terryma/vim-expand-region): Allows you to visually select increasingly larger regions of text using the same key combination
* [vim-fugitive](https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive): A Git wrapper so awesome, it should be illegal
* [vim-indent-object](https://github.com/michaeljsmith/vim-indent-object): Defines a new text object representing lines of code at the same indent level. Useful for python/vim scripts
* [vim-multiple-cursors](https://github.com/terryma/vim-multiple-cursors): Sublime Text style multiple selections for Vim, CTRL+N is remapped to CTRL+S (due to YankRing)
* [vim-yankstack](https://github.com/maxbrunsfeld/vim-yankstack): Maintains a history of previous yanks, changes and deletes
Remove all clutter and focus only on the essential. Similar to iA Writer or Write Room [Read more here](http://amix.dk/blog/post/19744)


## Included color schemes

* [peaksea](https://github.com/vim-scripts/peaksea): The default
* [vim-colors-solarized](https://github.com/altercation/vim-colors-solarized)
* [vim-irblack](https://github.com/wgibbs/vim-irblack)
* [mayansmoke](https://github.com/vim-scripts/mayansmoke)
* [vim-pyte](https://github.com/therubymug/vim-pyte)


## Included modes

* [vim-coffee-script](https://github.com/kchmck/vim-coffee-script)
* [vim-less](https://github.com/groenewege/vim-less)
* [vim-bundle-mako](https://github.com/sophacles/vim-bundle-mako)
* [vim-markdown](https://github.com/tpope/vim-markdown)
* [nginx.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/nginx.vim): Highlights configuration files for nginx
* [vim-go](https://github.com/fatih/vim-go)


## How to include your own stuff?

After you have installed the setup, you can create **~/.vim_runtime/my_configs.vim** to fill in any configurations that are important for you. For instance, my **my_configs.vim** looks like this:

	~/.vim_runtime (master)> cat my_configs.vim
	map <leader>ct :cd ~/Desktop/Todoist/todoist<cr>
	map <leader>cw :cd ~/Desktop/Wedoist/wedoist<cr> 

You can also install your plugins, for instance, via pathogen you can install [vim-rails](https://github.com/tpope/vim-rails):

	cd ~/.vim_runtime
	git clone git://github.com/tpope/vim-rails.git sources_non_forked/vim-rails


## Key Mappings

The [leader](http://learnvimscriptthehardway.stevelosh.com/chapters/06.html#leader) is `,`, so whenever you see `<leader>` it means `,`.


### Plugin related mappings

Open [bufexplorer](https://github.com/vim-scripts/bufexplorer.zip) to see and manage the current buffers (`<leader>o`):
    
    map <leader>o :BufExplorer<cr>

Open [MRU.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/mru.vim) to see the recently open files (`<leader>f`):

    map <leader>f :MRU<CR>

Open [ctrlp.vim](https://github.com/kien/ctrlp.vim) plugin to quickly find a file or a buffer (`<leader>j` or `<ctrl>f`):
    
    let g:ctrlp_map = '<c-f>'

[NERD Tree](https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree) mappings:

    map <leader>nn :NERDTreeToggle<cr>
    map <leader>nb :NERDTreeFromBookmark 
    map <leader>nf :NERDTreeFind<cr>

[goyo.vim](https://github.com/junegunn/goyo.vim) and [vim-zenroom2](https://github.com/amix/vim-zenroom2) lets you only focus on one thing at a time. It removes all the distractions and centers the content. It has a special look when editing Markdown, reStructuredText and textfiles. It only has one mapping. (`<leader>z`)

    map <leader>z :Goyo<cr>


### Normal mode mappings

Fast saving of a buffer (`<leader>w`):

	nmap <leader>w :w!<cr>
	
Map `<Space>` to `/` (search) and `<Ctrl>+<Space>` to `?` (backwards search):
	
	map <space> /
	map <c-space> ?
	map <silent> <leader><cr> :noh<cr>

Disable highlights when you press `<leader><cr>`:
	
	map <silent> <leader><cr> :noh<cr>

Smart way to move between windows (`<ctrl>j` etc.):
	
	map <C-j> <C-W>j
	map <C-k> <C-W>k
	map <C-h> <C-W>h
	map <C-l> <C-W>l

Closing of the current buffer(s) (`<leader>bd` and (`<leader>ba`)):
	
	" Close current buffer
	map <leader>bd :Bclose<cr>
	
	" Close all buffers
	map <leader>ba :1,1000 bd!<cr>
	
Useful mappings for managing tabs:
	
	map <leader>tn :tabnew<cr>
	map <leader>to :tabonly<cr>
	map <leader>tc :tabclose<cr>
	map <leader>tm :tabmove 
	
	" Opens a new tab with the current buffer's path
	" Super useful when editing files in the same directory
	map <leader>te :tabedit <c-r>=expand("%:p:h")<cr>/
	
Switch [CWD](http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Set_working_directory_to_the_current_file) to the directory of the open buffer:
	
	map <leader>cd :cd %:p:h<cr>:pwd<cr>
	
Open `ack.vim` for fast search:
	
	map <leader>g :Ack 

Quickly open a buffer for scripbble:
	
	map <leader>q :e ~/buffer<cr>

Toggle paste mode on and off:
	
	map <leader>pp :setlocal paste!<cr>


### Visual mode mappings

Visual mode pressing `*` or `#` searches for the current selection:

	vnoremap <silent> * :call VisualSelection('f')<CR>
	vnoremap <silent> # :call VisualSelection('b')<CR>

When you press gv you `Ack.vim` after the selected text:

	vnoremap <silent> gv :call VisualSelection('gv', '')<CR>

When you press `<leader>r` you can search and replace the selected text:

	vnoremap <silent> <leader>r :call VisualSelection('replace')<CR>

Surround the visual selection in parenthesis/brackets/etc.:

    vnoremap $1 <esc>`>a)<esc>`<i(<esc>
    vnoremap $2 <esc>`>a]<esc>`<i[<esc>
    vnoremap $3 <esc>`>a}<esc>`<i{<esc>
    vnoremap $$ <esc>`>a"<esc>`<i"<esc>
    vnoremap $q <esc>`>a'<esc>`<i'<esc>
    vnoremap $e <esc>`>a"<esc>`<i"<esc>


### Insert mode mappings

Quickly insert parenthesis/brackets/etc.:

    inoremap $1 ()<esc>i
    inoremap $2 []<esc>i
    inoremap $3 {}<esc>i
    inoremap $4 {<esc>o}<esc>O
    inoremap $q ''<esc>i
    inoremap $e ""<esc>i
    inoremap $t <><esc>i

Insert the current date and time (useful for timestamps):

    iab xdate <c-r>=strftime("%d/%m/%y %H:%M:%S")<cr>


### Command line mappings

$q is super useful when browsing on the command line. It deletes everything until the last slash:

    cno $q <C-\>eDeleteTillSlash()<cr>

Bash like keys for the command line:

    cnoremap <C-A>		<Home>
    cnoremap <C-E>		<End>
    cnoremap <C-K>		<C-U>

    cnoremap <C-P> <Up>
    cnoremap <C-N> <Down>

Write the file as sudo (works only on Unix). Super useful when you open a file and you don't have permissions to save your changes. [Vim tip](http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Su-write):

    :W 


### Spell checking
Pressing `<leader>ss` will toggle spell checking:

    map <leader>ss :setlocal spell!<cr>

Shortcuts using `<leader>` instead of special characters:

    map <leader>sn ]s
    map <leader>sp [s
    map <leader>sa zg
    map <leader>s? z=


### Cope
Query `:help cope` if you are unsure what cope is. It's super useful!

When you search with `Ack.vim`, display your results in cope by doing:
`<leader>cc`

To go to the next search result do:
`<leader>n`

To go to the previous search results do:
`<leader>p`

Cope mappings:

    map <leader>cc :botright cope<cr>
    map <leader>co ggVGy:tabnew<cr>:set syntax=qf<cr>pgg
    map <leader>n :cn<cr>
    map <leader>p :cp<cr>


## How to uninstall
Just do following:
* Remove `~/.vim_runtime`
* Remove any lines that reference `.vim_runtime` in your `~/.vimrc`

Commit message:

Parameterized install script (#337)
Make Awesome install script parameterizable for central VIMRC management

README.md, after:

![VIM](https://dnp4pehkvoo6n.cloudfront.net/43c5af597bd5c1a64eb1829f011c208f/as/Ultimate%20Vimrc.svg)

# The Ultimate vimrc

Over the last 10 years, I have used and tweaked Vim. This configuration is the ultimate vimrc (or at least my version of it).

There are two versions:

* **The Basic**: If you want something small just copy [basic.vim](https://github.com/amix/vimrc/blob/master/vimrcs/basic.vim) into your ~/.vimrc and you will have a good basic setup
* **The Awesome**: Includes a ton of useful plugins, color schemes, and configurations

I would, of course, recommend using the awesome version.


## How to install the Awesome version?
### Install for your own user only
The awesome version includes a lot of great plugins, configurations and color schemes that make Vim a lot better. To install it simply do following from your terminal:

	git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/amix/vimrc.git ~/.vim_runtime
	sh ~/.vim_runtime/install_awesome_vimrc.sh
	
### Install for multiple users
To install for multiple users, the repository needs to be cloned to a location accessible for all the intended users.

	git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/amix/vimrc.git /opt/vim_runtime
	sh ~/.vim_runtime/install_awesome_parameterized.sh /opt/vim_runtime user0 user1 user2
	# to install for all users with home directories
	sh ~/.vim_runtime/install_awesome_parameterized.sh /opt/vim_runtime --all
	
Naturally, `/opt/vim_runtime` can be any directory, as long as all the users specified have read access.

## Fonts

I recommend using [IBM Plex Mono font](https://github.com/IBM/plex) (it's an open-source and awesome font that can make your code beautiful). The Awesome vimrc is already setup to try to use it.

Some other fonts that Awesome will try to use:

* [Hack](http://sourcefoundry.org/hack/)
* [Source Code Pro](https://adobe-fonts.github.io/source-code-pro/)

## How to install the Basic version?

The basic version is just one file and no plugins. Just copy [basic.vim](https://github.com/amix/vimrc/blob/master/vimrcs/basic.vim) and paste it into your vimrc.

The basic version is useful to install on remote servers where you don't need many plugins, and you don't do many edits.

	git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/amix/vimrc.git ~/.vim_runtime
	sh ~/.vim_runtime/install_basic_vimrc.sh


## How to install on Windows?

Use [msysgit](http://msysgit.github.com/) to checkout the repository and run the installation instructions above. No special instructions needed ;-)


## How to install on Linux

If you have vim aliased as `vi` instead of `vim`, make sure to either alias it: `alias vi=vim`. Otherwise, `apt-get install vim`


## How to update to latest version?

Just do a git rebase!

    cd ~/.vim_runtime
    git pull --rebase


## Some screenshots

Colors when editing a Python file:

![Screenshot 1](https://dnp4pehkvoo6n.cloudfront.net/07583008e4da885801657e8781777844/as/Python%20editing.png)

Opening recently opened files with the [mru.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/mru.vim) plugin:

![Screenshot 2](https://dnp4pehkvoo6n.cloudfront.net/1d49a88f9bd5d013c025bb1e1272a7d8/as/MRU%20plugin.png)

[NERD Tree](https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree) plugin in a terminal window:
![Screenshot 3](https://dnp4pehkvoo6n.cloudfront.net/ae719203166585d64728f28398f4b1b7/as/Terminal%20usage.png)

Distraction free mode using [goyo.vim](https://github.com/junegunn/goyo.vim) and [vim-zenroom2](https://github.com/amix/vim-zenroom2):
![Screenshot 4](https://dnp4pehkvoo6n.cloudfront.net/f0dcc4c9739148c56cbf8285a910ac41/as/Zen%20mode.png)


## Included Plugins

I recommend reading the docs of these plugins to understand them better. Each plugin provides a much better Vim experience!

* [ack.vim](https://github.com/mileszs/ack.vim): Vim plugin for `the_silver_searcher` (ag) or ack -- a wicked fast grep
* [bufexplorer.zip](https://github.com/vim-scripts/bufexplorer.zip): Quickly and easily switch between buffers. This plugin can be opened with `<leader+o>`
* [ctrlp.vim](https://github.com/ctrlpvim/ctrlp.vim): Fuzzy file, buffer, mru and tag finder. It's mapped to `<Ctrl+F>`
* [goyo.vim](https://github.com/junegunn/goyo.vim) and [vim-zenroom2](https://github.com/amix/vim-zenroom2): 
* [lightline.vim](https://github.com/itchyny/lightline.vim): A light and configurable statusline/tabline for Vim
* [NERD Tree](https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree): A tree explorer plugin for vim
* [mru.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/mru.vim): Plugin to manage Most Recently Used (MRU) files. This plugin can be opened with `<leader+f>`
* [open_file_under_cursor.vim](https://github.com/amix/open_file_under_cursor.vim): Open file under cursor when pressing `gf`
* [pathogen.vim](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen): Manage your vim runtimepath 
* [snipmate.vim](https://github.com/garbas/vim-snipmate): snipmate.vim aims to be a concise vim script that implements some of TextMate's snippets features in Vim
* [syntastic](https://github.com/scrooloose/syntastic): Syntax checking hacks for vim
* [vim-commentary](https://github.com/tpope/vim-commentary): Comment stuff out.  Use `gcc` to comment out a line (takes a count), `gc` to comment out the target of a motion. `gcu` uncomments a set of adjacent commented lines.
* [vim-expand-region](https://github.com/terryma/vim-expand-region): Allows you to visually select increasingly larger regions of text using the same key combination
* [vim-fugitive](https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive): A Git wrapper so awesome, it should be illegal
* [vim-indent-object](https://github.com/michaeljsmith/vim-indent-object): Defines a new text object representing lines of code at the same indent level. Useful for python/vim scripts
* [vim-multiple-cursors](https://github.com/terryma/vim-multiple-cursors): Sublime Text style multiple selections for Vim, CTRL+N is remapped to CTRL+S (due to YankRing)
* [vim-yankstack](https://github.com/maxbrunsfeld/vim-yankstack): Maintains a history of previous yanks, changes and deletes
Remove all clutter and focus only on the essential. Similar to iA Writer or Write Room [Read more here](http://amix.dk/blog/post/19744)


## Included color schemes

* [peaksea](https://github.com/vim-scripts/peaksea): The default
* [vim-colors-solarized](https://github.com/altercation/vim-colors-solarized)
* [vim-irblack](https://github.com/wgibbs/vim-irblack)
* [mayansmoke](https://github.com/vim-scripts/mayansmoke)
* [vim-pyte](https://github.com/therubymug/vim-pyte)


## Included modes

* [vim-coffee-script](https://github.com/kchmck/vim-coffee-script)
* [vim-less](https://github.com/groenewege/vim-less)
* [vim-bundle-mako](https://github.com/sophacles/vim-bundle-mako)
* [vim-markdown](https://github.com/tpope/vim-markdown)
* [nginx.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/nginx.vim): Highlights configuration files for nginx
* [vim-go](https://github.com/fatih/vim-go)


## How to include your own stuff?

After you have installed the setup, you can create **~/.vim_runtime/my_configs.vim** to fill in any configurations that are important for you. For instance, my **my_configs.vim** looks like this:

	~/.vim_runtime (master)> cat my_configs.vim
	map <leader>ct :cd ~/Desktop/Todoist/todoist<cr>
	map <leader>cw :cd ~/Desktop/Wedoist/wedoist<cr> 

You can also install your plugins, for instance, via pathogen you can install [vim-rails](https://github.com/tpope/vim-rails):

	cd ~/.vim_runtime
	git clone git://github.com/tpope/vim-rails.git sources_non_forked/vim-rails


## Key Mappings

The [leader](http://learnvimscriptthehardway.stevelosh.com/chapters/06.html#leader) is `,`, so whenever you see `<leader>` it means `,`.


### Plugin related mappings

Open [bufexplorer](https://github.com/vim-scripts/bufexplorer.zip) to see and manage the current buffers (`<leader>o`):
    
    map <leader>o :BufExplorer<cr>

Open [MRU.vim](https://github.com/vim-scripts/mru.vim) to see the recently open files (`<leader>f`):

    map <leader>f :MRU<CR>

Open [ctrlp.vim](https://github.com/kien/ctrlp.vim) plugin to quickly find a file or a buffer (`<leader>j` or `<ctrl>f`):
    
    let g:ctrlp_map = '<c-f>'

[NERD Tree](https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree) mappings:

    map <leader>nn :NERDTreeToggle<cr>
    map <leader>nb :NERDTreeFromBookmark 
    map <leader>nf :NERDTreeFind<cr>

[goyo.vim](https://github.com/junegunn/goyo.vim) and [vim-zenroom2](https://github.com/amix/vim-zenroom2) lets you only focus on one thing at a time. It removes all the distractions and centers the content. It has a special look when editing Markdown, reStructuredText and textfiles. It only has one mapping. (`<leader>z`)

    map <leader>z :Goyo<cr>


### Normal mode mappings

Fast saving of a buffer (`<leader>w`):

	nmap <leader>w :w!<cr>
	
Map `<Space>` to `/` (search) and `<Ctrl>+<Space>` to `?` (backwards search):
	
	map <space> /
	map <c-space> ?
	map <silent> <leader><cr> :noh<cr>

Disable highlights when you press `<leader><cr>`:
	
	map <silent> <leader><cr> :noh<cr>

Smart way to move between windows (`<ctrl>j` etc.):
	
	map <C-j> <C-W>j
	map <C-k> <C-W>k
	map <C-h> <C-W>h
	map <C-l> <C-W>l

Closing of the current buffer(s) (`<leader>bd` and (`<leader>ba`)):
	
	" Close current buffer
	map <leader>bd :Bclose<cr>
	
	" Close all buffers
	map <leader>ba :1,1000 bd!<cr>
	
Useful mappings for managing tabs:
	
	map <leader>tn :tabnew<cr>
	map <leader>to :tabonly<cr>
	map <leader>tc :tabclose<cr>
	map <leader>tm :tabmove 
	
	" Opens a new tab with the current buffer's path
	" Super useful when editing files in the same directory
	map <leader>te :tabedit <c-r>=expand("%:p:h")<cr>/
	
Switch [CWD](http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Set_working_directory_to_the_current_file) to the directory of the open buffer:
	
	map <leader>cd :cd %:p:h<cr>:pwd<cr>
	
Open `ack.vim` for fast search:
	
	map <leader>g :Ack 

Quickly open a buffer for scripbble:
	
	map <leader>q :e ~/buffer<cr>

Toggle paste mode on and off:
	
	map <leader>pp :setlocal paste!<cr>


### Visual mode mappings

Visual mode pressing `*` or `#` searches for the current selection:

	vnoremap <silent> * :call VisualSelection('f')<CR>
	vnoremap <silent> # :call VisualSelection('b')<CR>

When you press gv you `Ack.vim` after the selected text:

	vnoremap <silent> gv :call VisualSelection('gv', '')<CR>

When you press `<leader>r` you can search and replace the selected text:

	vnoremap <silent> <leader>r :call VisualSelection('replace')<CR>

Surround the visual selection in parenthesis/brackets/etc.:

    vnoremap $1 <esc>`>a)<esc>`<i(<esc>
    vnoremap $2 <esc>`>a]<esc>`<i[<esc>
    vnoremap $3 <esc>`>a}<esc>`<i{<esc>
    vnoremap $$ <esc>`>a"<esc>`<i"<esc>
    vnoremap $q <esc>`>a'<esc>`<i'<esc>
    vnoremap $e <esc>`>a"<esc>`<i"<esc>


### Insert mode mappings

Quickly insert parenthesis/brackets/etc.:

    inoremap $1 ()<esc>i
    inoremap $2 []<esc>i
    inoremap $3 {}<esc>i
    inoremap $4 {<esc>o}<esc>O
    inoremap $q ''<esc>i
    inoremap $e ""<esc>i
    inoremap $t <><esc>i

Insert the current date and time (useful for timestamps):

    iab xdate <c-r>=strftime("%d/%m/%y %H:%M:%S")<cr>


### Command line mappings

$q is super useful when browsing on the command line. It deletes everything until the last slash:

    cno $q <C-\>eDeleteTillSlash()<cr>

Bash like keys for the command line:

    cnoremap <C-A>		<Home>
    cnoremap <C-E>		<End>
    cnoremap <C-K>		<C-U>

    cnoremap <C-P> <Up>
    cnoremap <C-N> <Down>

Write the file as sudo (works only on Unix). Super useful when you open a file and you don't have permissions to save your changes. [Vim tip](http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Su-write):

    :W 


### Spell checking
Pressing `<leader>ss` will toggle spell checking:

    map <leader>ss :setlocal spell!<cr>

Shortcuts using `<leader>` instead of special characters:

    map <leader>sn ]s
    map <leader>sp [s
    map <leader>sa zg
    map <leader>s? z=


### Cope
Query `:help cope` if you are unsure what cope is. It's super useful!

When you search with `Ack.vim`, display your results in cope by doing:
`<leader>cc`

To go to the next search result do:
`<leader>n`

To go to the previous search results do:
`<leader>p`

Cope mappings:

    map <leader>cc :botright cope<cr>
    map <leader>co ggVGy:tabnew<cr>:set syntax=qf<cr>pgg
    map <leader>n :cn<cr>
    map <leader>p :cp<cr>


## How to uninstall
Just do following:
* Remove `~/.vim_runtime`
* Remove any lines that reference `.vim_runtime` in your `~/.vimrc`
